{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
\fs24
\b LangChain and LangGraph POC for This Project\b0\par
\par
\b 1. Project Context\b0\par
Project name: Self-Service Analytics Copilot.\par
Repository purpose: upload a dataset, run a configurable analytics workflow, save the run, and let a copilot answer follow-up questions from the saved analysis.\par
\par
This proof of concept is not a generic chatbot demo. It uses LangChain and LangGraph in a practical data-analysis product with Streamlit on the frontend and FastAPI on the backend.\par
\par
\b 2. POC Objective\b0\par
The objective of this POC is to show how LangChain and LangGraph fit together inside the current codebase.\par
\par
The target outcome is:\par
- LangGraph orchestrates the multi-step analysis workflow.\par
- LangChain powers the LLM-driven parts of the product.\par
- Deterministic Python logic handles file loading, profiling, anomaly checks, and persistence.\par
- The user gets a full analytics experience instead of a single prompt-response interaction.\par
\par
\b 3. Current Architecture in the Repo\b0\par
Frontend: \f1 streamlit_app.py\f0  provides dataset upload, workflow options, result views, saved-run browsing, and copilot interaction.\par
Backend: \f1 main.py\f0  exposes API endpoints such as \f1 /analyze\f0 , \f1 /runs\f0 , \f1 /runs/latest\f0 , and \f1 /copilot/ask\f0 .\par
Workflow orchestration: \f1 graph/workflow.py\f0  and \f1 graph/nodes.py\f0 .\par
Shared state: \f1 graph/state.py\f0 .\par
LLM-backed agents: \f1 agents/insight.py\f0 , \f1 agents/reporter.py\f0 , and \f1 agents/copilot.py\f0 .\par
Deterministic agents and tools: profiling, anomaly detection, visualization planning, data loading, and run storage.\par
\par
\b 4. Where LangGraph Is Used\b0\par
LangGraph is the orchestration layer for the analysis pipeline. The graph is built in \f1 graph/workflow.py\f0  using \f1 StateGraph(AnalysisState)\f0 .\par
\par
Implemented workflow path:\par
Load Data -> Profile Data -> Detect Anomalies or Skip -> Generate Insights or Skip -> Create Visualizations or Skip -> Generate Report or Skip.\par
\par
Important LangGraph behavior already present in this project:\par
- Each node has one clear responsibility.\par
- The graph uses conditional routing instead of a fixed linear pipeline.\par
- User options decide whether anomaly detection, insight generation, visual planning, and report generation run or are skipped.\par
- The graph compiles once and is invoked asynchronously with shared workflow state.\par
\par
Routing functions already implemented:\par
- \f1 route_after_profile\f0 \par
- \f1 route_after_anomalies\f0 \par
- \f1 route_after_insights\f0 \par
- \f1 route_after_visualizations\f0 \par
\par
This is the main LangGraph value in the POC: stateful branching control for a real workflow, not only agent chaining.\par
\par
\b 5. Shared State Design\b0\par
The state object in \f1 graph/state.py\f0  is the contract between graph nodes.\par
\par
It currently stores:\par
- input metadata such as file path, file name, and analysis type\par
- feature flags such as include anomalies, insights, visualizations, and report\par
- workflow outputs such as profile, anomalies, insights, visualizations, and report\par
- execution metadata such as status, error, messages, and completed steps\par
\par
Why this matters for the POC:\par
- every node reads from and writes to a single state object\par
- the UI can show progress and execution trace using \f1 messages\f0  and \f1 completed_steps\f0 \par
- the workflow remains extensible because new nodes can be added without rewriting the whole pipeline\par
\par
\b 6. Where LangChain Is Used\b0\par
LangChain is used for prompt management, model invocation, output parsing, and retry handling.\par
\par
Current LangChain usage in the codebase:\par
\par
\f1 agents/insight.py\f0 \f0 \par
- uses \f1 ChatPromptTemplate\f0  for a structured analyst prompt\par
- uses \f1 JsonOutputParser\f0  to enforce machine-readable insight output\par
- returns executive summary, key findings, risks, and recommended actions\par
\par
\f1 agents/reporter.py\f0 \f0 \par
- uses \f1 ChatPromptTemplate\f0  for markdown report generation\par
- uses \f1 StrOutputParser\f0 \par
- writes the final markdown report to the outputs directory\par
\par
\f1 agents/copilot.py\f0 \f0 \par
- uses \f1 ChatPromptTemplate\f0  to answer questions only from saved run context\par
- uses \f1 StrOutputParser\f0 \par
- supports run-aware question answering instead of generic LLM responses\par
\par
\f1 agents/llm_utils.py\f0 \f0 \par
- centralizes chat model creation and retry logic\par
\par
This is the main LangChain value in the POC: reusable prompt chains for each business capability instead of embedding raw prompt strings everywhere.\par
\par
\b 7. End-to-End POC Flow\b0\par
1. User uploads a CSV, JSON, XLSX, or TXT file from the Streamlit app.\par
2. Backend validates the file and stores it in \f1 data/uploads\f0 .\par
3. LangGraph starts the workflow with \f1 run_analysis\f0 .\par
4. Profiling and anomaly logic produce structured dataset signals.\par
5. LangChain-powered agents generate business insights and a report.\par
6. The run is saved through \f1 services/run_store.py\f0 .\par
7. The copilot answers future questions using the saved run summary and outputs.\par
\par
Business interpretation of the POC:\par
The system behaves like an analytics workspace where traditional analysis and LLM reasoning are combined in one product flow.\par
\par
\b 8. Why This Is a Good LangChain + LangGraph POC\b0\par
This repo demonstrates a strong separation of concerns.\par
\par
LangGraph responsibilities:\par
- workflow control\par
- branching and skip logic\par
- state transition management\par
\par
LangChain responsibilities:\par
- structured prompts\par
- model invocation\par
- output parsing\par
- reusable LLM chains\par
\par
Deterministic Python responsibilities:\par
- file ingestion\par
- profiling and anomaly checks\par
- report persistence\par
- saved-run retrieval\par
\par
This separation is the key architectural lesson from the POC.\par
\par
\b 9. Reliability Measures Already Implemented\b0\par
This project already includes production-oriented safeguards, which makes the POC stronger.\par
\par
Implemented safeguards:\par
- deterministic fallback insight generation if the LLM call fails\par
- deterministic fallback report generation if the LLM call fails\par
- fallback copilot answer when the LLM is unavailable\par
- retry logic around model invocation\par
- option-based skipping of non-essential steps\par
\par
This is important because a useful POC should demonstrate controlled failure behavior, not only happy-path output.\par
\par
\b 10. Proposed POC Demonstration Script\b0\par
Demo scenario for stakeholders:\par
\par
Step 1: open the Streamlit app and upload a sample dataset.\par
Step 2: run the workflow with all options enabled.\par
Step 3: show the LangGraph-driven sequence of completed steps.\par
Step 4: inspect generated profile, anomaly summary, insights, and report.\par
Step 5: open the saved run history.\par
Step 6: ask the copilot questions such as:\par
- What are the top data quality risks?\par
- Which columns look most anomalous?\par
- What actions should a business analyst take next?\par
\par
Expected outcome:\par
Stakeholders can see that LangGraph manages the process while LangChain handles the reasoning-heavy narrative outputs.\par
\par
\b 11. Recommended POC Talking Points\b0\par
- This project uses LangGraph for orchestration, not just linear chaining.\par
- This project uses LangChain where LLM structure matters: insights, reports, and copilot responses.\par
- The workflow is stateful, configurable, and reusable.\par
- The design avoids full dependence on the LLM by keeping deterministic analytics in standard Python modules.\par
- Saved runs create grounded context for future Q and A.\par
\par
\b 12. Gaps and Next Improvements\b0\par
The current codebase is already a valid POC, but these additions would strengthen the next iteration:\par
- implement the unfinished \f1 /analyze-streaming\f0  endpoint for live progress updates\par
- persist graph traces more formally for observability\par
- add retrieval across multiple runs for comparative insights\par
- add authentication and per-user workspace isolation\par
- render recommended visualizations directly in the UI instead of only listing them\par
\par
\b 13. Conclusion\b0\par
This project is a practical LangChain and LangGraph proof of concept.\par
\par
LangGraph is used correctly as the workflow engine for routing, state, and optional execution paths. LangChain is used correctly as the LLM abstraction layer for prompts, parsing, and response generation. Together, they create an analytics copilot that is more realistic than a simple chatbot demo and is directly aligned with real product architecture.\par
\par
In short, this repo already demonstrates the right POC pattern:\par
LangGraph for process orchestration, LangChain for intelligence, and Python data tooling for deterministic analysis.\par
}
